Hello again.
Delightful God.
People in this video we're gonna to set up a play space that's going to be a basic level because we're
going to be using a lot of physics here and there's some stuff we need tonight to have ready to make
that happen.
Well not only that well we're going to need a floor because if we've got a bunch of rigid bodies that
those are going to have gravity automatically assigned to them the less we tell them otherwise.
If there's no floor they're just going to fall before we can do anything.
We also only the camera we are using 3-d.
If we don't set a camera we won't see anything in 2D.
You'll just get the full view of it in 3D.
We must have a camera while we set in that we may as well check our environment settings because those
are linked to the camera.
I'd also like to put some lighting in.
Let's make this look good but if we're lighting things we need objects light someone to get into God.
And the first thing we do is make a basic node so let's make a spatial node so spatial though because
it can be a very basic 3-d no what shall to call this level one.
Now later on we may decide to make this a template and then a rename it and resave it if we do.
So if we want multiple levels and all levels must have some things in common and they all inherit from
a template we could call this basic fact.
I could just call this level templates.
Must do that now level template much better idea.
So we have our level template mode node mode we dont have a mode we have a node forget our models and
its architecture.
You'll see we have a floor.
Now these are all made by Kenny and they're pretty high quality there but lovely textures.
So what I do is Im going to do drag the mesh in its cone to create new measures.
When they click on the measurements and rename it floor.
We've now got something called floor mats at the transform because right now it's just wherever I happen
to place it that's not that useful.
So on a translation that is 0 0 0 you know just by the way I've already set gritz lapping up right here.
So when I move things they will move to the grid.
One more thing I notice the origin is not in the centre right.
This thing here this is where the floor's position has been calculate.
That's because Kenny likes to put his origins in the corner.
It's very useful in a lot of cases it's actually not always that useful and got out and is going to
be copper cases where it will cause us problems.
Normally you would fix this in blender but I'm going to show you what these problems are and how we
could fix them if we get assets like this.
So what I want to do is make the floor and nice big size and go down to scale and transform.
Making sure I've got my floor selected not my lot.
I'm late and I'm going to give this what he think 15 by 15 we leave the wires one floor.
These are meters so 15 by 15 on the horizontal is great.
I don't need a 15 feet tall floor.
If you don't speak madrick I'm sorry that I'm sure you get used to it.
OK.
So we now have a mesh called flaw.
It won't work as a flop if we have any rigid bodies that just fall straight through it.
So we need to give it collision.
Easiest way to do that is go to the match button.
We're going to add a convex collision static body right not the ceiling.
The static body and there it is you can see the collision is all around it.
And our floor is off to the side because this is the origin This is where God is calculating its position.
It's very difficult to change the origin of an object within God.
So instead I'm going to move the entire floor over.
And now when things spawn in the ausborn in on the flock Let's move it down one as well.
You know what let's get a translation.
I believe I'm looking at 42 should be about right 42 by negative 42.
And I was going to move it down by one.
Let's move it back up by one.
Having the grid above it is actually little annoying.
How's that look.
That's not quite Santa.
I was wrong.
It's not 42.
It's.
Well it's that.
That is sex.
Doesn't actually matter too much but looks good.
Okay.
Right now we have a level.
We only with save this that save really good scenes.
And I make a new folder let's create a folder and call it levels within which were put level template
dot T.
CNN So there is.
OK.
So we have this level and if I press play right now then we select this is our default scene.
We can change that later.
Fine grey screen Why no camera.
Back up to a level template it's not a child a floor.
It's a child of the root node.
We make a camera.
And let's just see you were in the floor.
That's terrible.
He says Move it back in it and up by to meet us about the height of a human one point six is an average
height I think.
I don't know I forget.
Click on preview.
Lots of floor press play.
Great.
Now if you want to this is where you're going to change your environments of clicking on the camera.
You probably remember this from cubed to kick about four go up the ruffolo there's a default environment
we can just drag that in.
Any changes we make to that will change every single scene.
If he don't want that to be true you're going to need to make a new environment for the scene and use
that right now ambient light is set to bloom.
And we're taking all of the light from the sky anyway right.
So we've got a very blue sky with a slightly blue sun and everything is going to have this blue tent.
Let's make the ambient colour slightly more orange.
That's not going to be how the actual objects going to be lit.
We put some lighting in it too.
But just to see what we're doing you can also go over to Sky.
We using a procedural skywrite now.
And if you want to you can change these values.
I'm actually okay with them as they are.
But if you want to to your top colour could be bright pink.
It looks ghastly and a rising colour could be this horrible burgundy colour.
Wow.
You know I don't miss the 1980s.
Let's go back a little bit.
That looks much better doesn't it.
If you want to change them this is where you do it.
I'm going to go back.
We could also put on reflections and also exposure I'm not going to mess with those yet.
Let's have some objects first.
OK.
We need an object first of all do good models and into furniture and we have a bunch of objects here
and what we want to do is bring one of these in as a rigid body then bring it in as a rigid body because
it will automatically have gravity applied and that's perfect.
A quick warning.
I'm going to use this desk corner and if I start running it again it's going to behave very weirdly
so yours does that.
Don't panic when you come back after we pause it.
I haven't seen a test like that.
When you come back us show you how to fix that but for now my challenge to you is to bring in one or
two items of furniture.
Create one or two rigid bodies and use those furniture mashers.
Don't worry feel a bit confused just get familiar with making things in 3D to pause the video.
Pick one or two items of furniture bring them in and then when you come back I'll show you my solution.
I'm ok Mac.
Alright so I'm going to bring in desk not unlike a..
Just a basic node and call it furniture.
Organize these things.
Great.
I had to check my spelling.
My eyes are going weird now.
I'm a drag in this desk and I going move it up a little bit and look where the origin's see that at
the moment this is just a mesh.
If I press play nothing will happen.
Right.
Desk just hovers there.
Very boring.
Rotate it a bit.
We actually see whats happening and move it back that way.
OK.
So we have a boring desk so very badly lit.
Then we fix element to make this into a rigid bodies a couple of things we could do.
But what I'm going to do is actually make the rigid body and drag the mesh instance in to the rigid
body and nothing to reposition the rigid body to that no.
I'm doing this this way round because it is a mistake I made a lot right.
I would drag the mesh into its rigid body and then not notice that the positions are different.
So let's put it back to where it was.
So you are at 0 0 0 and your rotation is 0 0 0 0.
Fantastic.
So now you're back to where I expect it to be.
Let's rename this desk.
And back to the mission instance meche instance.
It's hard to say.
Let's give you here we go a tri mesh collision sibling because we have lots of little details let's
follow it around because we want the play to build a jump on it.
We don't think big underneath and we should now have a nice little desk get a back up to the desk itself.
Dont move the child move the parent rotated a bit and just move it back up.
Great.
Look what happens when a Pressplay.
My God my desk is possessed.
Why is this happening.
It's happening because the origin is right here.
Let me show you what that means.
Origins matter.
The origin is the position of an node is where God is going to put all of the calculations.
Right so if I say the desk is a 0 0 0 what I was doing is looking at the origin of the desk is not looking
at the mesh and getting an average.
You've seen when I had this meshes since over here somewhere.
That is possible to have the mesh in the wrong place but the other side of that is the origin is where
the physics will be calculated from right.
So we're applying any kind of physics calculation.
It's always going to be from where the origin is and that's important because that means the origin
is the centre of gravity.
Look at the desk our centre of gravity is right here.
And when we press play the desk will try and get to a centre of gravity.
Which is there.
That's not what we want.
So how can we fix that.
Well first off let's put some light in here because I can't actually see the desk.
Don't worry.
We will get to it.
I make a directional white like the sun and it's going to be nice.
Go nice and high and pointed in the right direction and down like so how's that.
That better.
So a little bit better.
Point you this way.
Let's actually point this out over that way.
It's getting a bit lower.
Another desk is of course the same colour as the floor because I wasn't paying much attention but we
can fix that.
Okay.
So we have a desk issued custom shallows now.
It's not cussing Challis directional white.
You need to cast shadows.
There we go.
Let's go labella now.
A Pressplay.
Great.
So it's trying to right itself so how can we fix it.
All we do is select both children.
The meche instance and the collision shape.
And here is the origin.
So I'm going to move them like so.
Looking a little bit better.
And I am eyeballing this.
I will admit that.
But I mean move them a little bit further.
I may be down one.
So now when I look at the centre of gravity is in a slightly better place.
In fact the centre of gravity wants to be here does that because of the physics of this.
So let's go even further in that direction.
So you two can go.
Like so let's switch off grid for now.
And how's that.
It's looking better.
Making sure the desk is selected now because I want to move the entire object not just the mash.
Move it up a bit.
And what I'm expecting now is a desk to slam down maybe down some little and not do anything else.
Much more like it.
And you know what let's make the desk heavy.
So these are all ing in grams I think they are.
And I happened to look up how much a desk would weigh.
So I say 270 How's that.
Bonk much more like it.
In fact that's the mass not the weight.
The 270 should be here.
I just made the world's heaviest desk so if you working removals I'm so sorry about my desk one more
time.
Fantastic.
We have a desk with a centre of gravity correct.
It's a little bit of a hassle right.
But if you import an object and it's working great and then you apply physics to it and it starts flipping
out like that check where the origin is.
And that brings us to the end of the video.
In this video we've set up a basic play space so we can play with physics and build levels and we've
looked at how to fix centre of gravity problems in rigid bodies.
So an excellent start and I will see you in the next video.